# Stack Cookie Theory of Operations

This document details the stack cookie theory of operations in edk2.

## Overview

Stack cookies are native width values inserted by the toolchain before the return address
on the stack. They are intended to catch certain classes of overflow attacks as well as
catching certain classes of overflow mistakes.

The toolchain inserts the cookie and checking functions on each function it determines may
need them (generally because they contain arrays on the stack or flags have been passed to
protect all functions). On return from the function, the stack cookie checking function is
called to validate the stack cookie maintains the same value as before the function was
invoked.

```text
|-------------------------------|
|        Previous Frame         |
|-------------------------------|
|        Return Address         |
|         Stack Cookie          |
|            Locals             |
|-------------------------------|
```

In this way, if a local array, e.g., is overflowed, the stack cookie must be corrupted in
order for the return address to be corrupted and it can be caught at run time.

## MSVC-style vs GCC-style Stack Cookies

There are two predominant forms of stack cookie checking, MSVC-style and GCC-style. MSVC and
CLANGPDB use the former, while GCC and CLANGDWARF use the latter. StackCheckLib supports
both styles, though at the time of writing support is enabled for MSVC and GCC only.

### MSVC-style Stack Cookies

MSVC-style stack cookies use the following APIset:

```c
// The __security_cookie is a random value placed on the stack between the stack variables
// and the return address so that continuously writing past the stack variables will cause
// the stack cookie to be overwritten. Before the function returns, the stack cookie value
// will be checked and if there is a mismatch then StackCheckLib handles the failure.
extern VOID  *__security_cookie;

/**
  Called when a buffer check fails. This functionality is dependent on MSVC
  C runtime libraries and so is unsupported in UEFI.

**/
VOID
EFIAPI
__report_rangecheckfailure (
  VOID
  );

/**
   The GS handler is for checking the stack cookie during SEH or
   EH exceptions and is unsupported in UEFI.

**/
VOID
EFIAPI
__GSHandlerCheck (
  VOID
  );

/**
   Checks the stack cookie value against __security_cookie and calls the
   stack cookie failure handler if there is a mismatch.

   @param UINTN  CheckValue The value to check against __security_cookie

**/
VOID
EFIAPI
__security_check_cookie (
  UINTN  CheckValue
  );
```

`__report_rangecheckfailure()` and `__GSHandlerCheck()` are not invoked in the UEFI context,
but MSVC can still include references to them in the binary, so they are included.

UEFI populates `__security_cookie` at build time (and optionally at runtime, see [dynamic cookies](#dynamic-cookies)).
The toolchain then inserts this value before the return value on certain functions as described. Upon return from these
functions, `__security_check_cookie(<current_value_of_stack_cookie>)` is called. StackCheckLib will compare against the
expected stack cookie and if the value matches, it will return (returning back to last stack frame) if it fails it will
trigger a [stack cookie failure](#stack-cookie-failures).

### GCC-style Stack Cookies

GCC-style stack cookies use the following APIset:

```c
// The __stack_chk_guard is a random value placed on the stack between the stack variables
// and the return address so that continuously writing past the stack variables will cause
// the stack cookie to be overwritten. Before the function returns, the stack cookie value
// will be checked and if there is a mismatch then StackCheckLib handles the failure.
extern VOID  *__stack_chk_guard;

/**
  Called when a stack cookie check fails. The return address is the failing address.

**/
VOID
EFIAPI
__stack_chk_fail (
  VOID
  );
```

As with MSVC-style checking, `__stack_chk_guard` is the stack cookie value, populating by UEFI at build time (and
optionally [runtime](#dynamic-cookies)). GCC-style stack cookies differ from MSVC-style because the stack cookie
checking code is automatically generated by the toolchain. Only if a [failure](#stack-cookie-failures) occurs is
StackCheckLib invoked, through `__stack_chk_fail()`.

## Cookie Generation

At build time, a random static stack cookie value is generated by BaseTools and inserted in `Autogen.h` as
`STACK_COOKIE_VALUE`. StackCheckLib then uses this define to set the static stack cookie value.

### Dynamic Cookies

In DXE and MM, dynamic stack cookies can be generated by the entry point libs under
`MdePkg/DynamicStackCookieEntryPointLib/`. Platforms may selectively use any or all of these dynamic entry point libs
to use dynamic stack cookies in some modules and not in others.

#### IA32/X64

On the x86 family of systems, the `RDRAND` instruction is used to generate a random number to use for each module's
stack cookie value dynamically at runtime.

The sequence of events is:

- `_ModuleEntryPoint()` is jumped to from the core.
- `RDRAND` support is queried from CPUID leaf 1
- If `RDRAND` is not supported, the static stack cookie is retained and execution continues in the module
- If `RDRAND` is supported, it is called to generate a random number. If it fails, the static stack cookie is retained
  and execution continues in the module
- If `RDRAND` succeeds, the stack cookie is updated with the random number

#### ARM64

For ARM64, the flow is the same as for x86, but `RNDR` is used and support is queried from `ID_AA64ISAR0_EL1`.

## Platform Configuration

This section discusses the architecture of how platforms consume this feature; see the [README](./Readme.md) for
platform integration instructions.

The supported toolchains build modules with stack cookies enabled. That means all modules must link against an instance
of StackCheckLib to satisfy the dependencies.

The entry point libs (whether static or dynamic) and SEC modules have StackCheckLib as an explicit dependency. This
forces the library to be linked to all modules without having to resort to a `NULL` lib.

`MdeLibs.dsc.inc` is used to provide `StackCheckLibNull` as the instance for all modules if they do not opt into a
different mechanism. This means that enabling/disabling stack cookie checking is not a breaking change for platforms.

### StackCheckLibNull

`StackCheckLibNull` is an instance of `StackCheckLib` that satisfies the symbol dependencies that must be filled with
stack cookies enabled in the toolchain, but it does no stack cookie checking or failures; it simply returns, which lets
execution continue in the event of a failure. This is the same behavior as if stack cookie checking was disabled in the
toolchain: errors are silently ignored.

### StackCheckLib

`StackCheckLib` is the library that implements actual stack cookie checking and error generation per toolchain type.
Platforms may use this implementation with either static or dynamic cookies, the checking logic is independent of how
the stack cookie was generated.

### Stack Cookie Failures

If a module has opted into stack cookie checking (by using the `StackCheckLib` library instance), stack cookie failures
will have the same behavior on all architectures.

1. The address of the function that corrupted the stack cookie is printed
2. `StackCheckFailureHookLib` is called to allow platforms to implement any behavior they want on a failure
3. `PcdStackCookieExceptionVector` is signaled to cause a fault (on x86 this is through `int` on ARM64 this is through
   `svc`)

This allows a platform to do specific actions they deem relevant, such as log to an external source (e.g. SEL) or
resetting the system. When the exception is taken, the exception handlers will catch it and hang the system or handle
it in a software debugger, if attached.

Developers can then debug from this point. See debugging tips in the [README](./Readme.md).

## Linking Considerations

The stack cookie symbols are unique in that the toolchain inserts them while linking a binary, generally fairly late
into the process, when it can decide which functions will need stack cookie checking. As such, toolchains must build
`StackCheckLib` with LTO disabled, because LTO occurs before the stack cookie symbol/function references are added;
the toolchain believes these symbols are unused, even though it will insert the references later on.

## Host Applications

There are two classes of Host Applications that are considered here: Host-Based Unit Tests and EmulatorPkg.

### Host-Based Unit Tests

edk2 runs host unit tests with ASAN enabled. This is a better buffer overflow checking strategy than stack cookies and
as such it is recommended that stack cookies are disabled and ASAN used in tests instead.

However, as stack cookies were enabled in edk2 before ASAN was, a `StackCheckLibNullHostApplication` library instance
exists which allows for running host-based unit tests with stack cookies enabled.

On Windows, edk2 links against a C runtime that provides stack cookie checking functionality. As such, the MSVC-style
stack cookie support here is a no-op and lets the C runtime handle it.

On Linux, edk2 does not link against a C runtime that provides stack cookie checking functionality. As such, the
GCC-style stack cookie checking is the same as in `StackCheckLib`.

### EmulatorPkg

EmulatorPkg is a host-based application that emulates a physical machine to boot edk2 on. It does not use ASAN. As such,
the `StackCheckLibNullHostApplication` library instance is used on the emulator piece of EmulatorPkg and the firmware
pieces may use either `StackCheckLib` or `StackCheckLibNull`.
