{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe2052{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Verdana;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}}
{\colortbl ;\red8\green96\blue168;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\stylesheet{ Normal;}{\s1 heading 1;}{\s2 heading 2;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.15.1515;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s2\li-1440\sb400\sa60\sl-340\slmult0\tx360\cf1\b\f0\fs28 Name\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\sb200\cf2\b0\fs18 Build.exe \endash  the master command that provides the developer with a single command for selecting various options of a build\par
\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s2\li-1440\sb400\sa60\sl-340\slmult0\tx360\cf1\b\fs28 Synopsis\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\sb200\cf2\fs18 Build.exe [options] [target]\par
\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s2\li-1440\sb400\sa60\sl-340\slmult0\cf1\fs28 Description\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\sb200\cf2\b0\fs18 Build.exe is the master command line (CLI) tool that provides the developer with a single command for selecting various options of a build.  In general, it checks the environment variables, gets the user\rquote s configuration from either the CLI or target.txt, parses the dsc, dec, inf, target.txt, tools_def.txt, generates .C, .H files and the Makefiles for one or more modules and/or the active platform, calls a make (NMake or make) program to process these Makefiles, then optionally calls GenFds to generate an fd file.\par
The build tool supports two kinds of path specifications on command line - an absolutely path or a relative (to the WORKSPACE environment variable) path \endash  in command line.\par
\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s2\li-1440\sb400\sa60\sl-340\slmult0\tx360\tx1440\cf1\b\fs28 Options\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\sb200\cf2\b0\fs18 There are no required options. \par
\b -a, --arch <ARCH>\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li720\sb200\b0 ARCH is one of list: IA32, X64, IPF or EBC,  which overrides target.txt's TARGET_ARCH  definition. To specify more ARCH, please  repeat this option.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\sb200\b -p, --platform PlatformName.dsc\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li720\sb200\b0 Build the platform specified by the DSC file  name argument, overrides target.txt's  ACTIVE_PLATFORM definition.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\sb200\b -m, --module ModuleName.inf\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li720\sb200\b0 Build the module specified by the INF file name argument.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\sb200\b -b, --buildtarget <TARGET>\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li720\sb200\b0 TARGET is one of list: DEBUG, RELEASE,  which overrides target.txt's TARGET definition. To specify more TARGET, please repeat this option.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\sb200\b -t, --tagname Tagname\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li720\sb200\b0 Using the Tool Chain Tagname to build the platform, overrides target.txt's TOOL_CHAIN_TAG definition.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\sb200\b -f --fdf Filename.fdf\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li720\sb200\b0 The name of the FDF file to use, which overrides the setting in the DSC file.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\sb200\b -r --rom-image ROM_IMAGE_NAME\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li720\sb200\b0 The name of FD to be generated. The name must be from [FD] section in FDF file.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\sb200\b -i --fv-image FV_IMAGE_NAME\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li720\sb200\b0 The name of FV to be generated. The name must be from [FV] section in FDF file.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\sb200\b -n NUM\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li720\sb200\b0 Build the platform using multi-threaded compiler. The value overrides target.txt's MULTIPLE_THREAD and MAX_CONCURRENT_THREAD_NUMBER. Less than 2 will disable multi-thread builds.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\sb200\b -x --sku-id SKU_ID\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li720\sb200\b0\f0 Using this name of SKU ID to build the platform, overriding SKUID_IDENTIFIER in DSC file.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\sb200\b -u --skip-autogen\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li720\sb200\b0\f0 Skip AutoGen step. Note the build may fail if there\rquote s no AutoGen-ed files before.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\sb200\b -e --re-parse\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li720\sb200\b0\f0 Re-parse all meta-data files. Use this option if you encounter inconsistency issue.\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\sb200\b\f0 -w --warning-as-error\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li720\sb200\b0\f0 Treat warning in tools as error.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\sb200\b -j --log LOGFILE\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li720\sb200\b0\f0 Put screen output in specified file.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\sb200\b -s \endash silent\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li720\sb200\b0 Tell \ldblquote make\rdblquote  tool to run \ldblquote silently\rdblquote . Internally, a \lquote -s\rquote  switch will be passed to \ldblquote make\rdblquote  tool. Don\rquote t use this option if your \ldblquote make\rdblquote  tool doesn\rquote t support \lquote -s\rquote . Instead, if your \ldblquote make\rdblquote  tool uses other option to do the same, you could add it to the XX_XX_XX_MAKE_FLAGS in tools_def.txt.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\sb200\b -d, --debug [#]\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li720\sb200\b0 Enable debug messages at specified level. It is used by Tool itself.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\sb200\b -q, --quiet\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li720\sb200\b0 Disable all messages except FATAL ERRORS.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\sb200\b -v, --verbose\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li720\sb200\b0 Turn on verbose output with informational messages printed.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\sb200\b -D, --define MACROS\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li720\sb200\b0 Macro: "Name [= Value]".\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\sb200\b -y, --report-file REPORTFILE\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li720\sb200\b0\f0 Create/overwrite the report to the specified filename.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\sb200\b -Y, --report-type REPORTTYPE\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li720\sb200\b0 Flags that control the type of build report to generate.  Must be one of: [PCD, LIBRARY, FLASH, DEPEX, BUILD_FLAGS, FIXED_ADDRESS, EXECUTION_ORDER].  To specify more than one flag, repeat this option on the command line and the default flag set is [PCD, LIBRARY, FLASH, DEPEX, BUILD_FLAGS, FIXED_ADDRESS]\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\sb200\b\f0 -F FLAG, --flag=FLAG\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li720\sb200\b0\f0 Specify the specific option to parse EDK UNI file. Must be one of: [-c, -s]. -c is for EDK framework UNI file, and -s is for EDK UEFI UNI file. This option can also be specified by setting *_*_*_BUILD_FLAGS in [BuildOptions] section of platform DSC. If they are both specified, this value will override the setting in [BuildOptions] section of platform DSC.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\sb200\b --version\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li720\sb200\b0 Show program's copyright and version number then exit.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\sb200\b -h, --help\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li720\sb200\b0 Print the copyright, version and usage of this program then exit.\par
\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s2\li-1440\sb400\sa60\sl-340\slmult0\tx360\tx1440\cf1\b\fs28 Target\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\sb200\cf2\b0\fs18 If no target is given, then default target is ALL.\par
\b ALL\b0            Build everything for either the platform or module.\par
\b GenC\b0          Auto-generate all C files for either the platform or module.\par
\b GenMake\b0      Generate the Makefiles \endash  if auto-generated files are missing,\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360                     then auto-generate all C files first for either the platform or module.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\sb200\b Fds\b0             Create the FD Image files.\par
\b Libraries\b0       Build all EDK Libraries and EDK II Library Instances which are specified.\par
\b Modules\b0        Build all EDK components and EDK II modules which are specified.\par
\b Clean\b0          Remove intermediate files generated by the NMAKE command (leaving\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360                     the auto-generated C format, FD image files, PE32 output files, PCH \par
                    files and LIB files).\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\sb200\b CleanAll\b0       Remove all intermmediate, auto-generated, FV and FD image files \endash  \par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360                    state of the tree should be exactly as if a fresh checkout or install has \par
                   occurred.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\sb200\b CleanLib\b0      Remove intermediate files generated by the NMAKE command AND LIB \par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360                    files (leaving the auto-generated, FV and FD image files, PE32 output \par
                   files and PCH files)\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\sb200\b run\b0            Run platform (for emulator platform only)\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\f1\par
\par
\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s2\li-1440\sb400\sa60\sl-340\slmult0\tx360\tx1440\cf1\b\f0\fs28 Examples\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\sb200\cf2\b0\fs18 Assume that $(WORKSPACE) is C:\\MyWorkspace\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li180\sb200 Build platform: Nt32Pkg.dsc\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\sb200 Specify the platform description file on the command line.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li720\sb200\b C:\\MyWorkspace>build -p Nt32Pkg\\Nt32Pkg.dsc \endash a IA32\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\sb200\b0 Build the platform in the current working directory if it contains a platform description file.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li720\sb200\b C:\\MyWorkspace\\Nt32Pkg>build \endash a IA32\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\sb200\b0 Build the active platform specified in the target.txt file.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li720\sb200\b C:\\ MyWorkspace>build \endash a Ia32\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\sb200\b0\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li180\sb200\f0 Build Module: HelloWorld.inf\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\sb200 Specify the platform and Module on the command line.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li720\sb200\b C:\\MyWorkspace>build -p Nt32Pkg\\Nt32Pkg.dsc \endash a IA32 \\\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li720  \endash m MdeModulePkg/Application/HelloWorld/HelloWorld.inf\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\sb200\b0 Specify the Module on the command line and use the active platform specified in the target.txt file.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li720\sb200\b C:\\MyWorkspace>build \endash a IA32 \\\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li720\endash m MdeModulePkg/Application/HelloWorld/HelloWorld.inf\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\sb200\b0 Build the module in the current working directory if it contains a module description file and specify the platform on the command line.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li720\sb200\b C:\\ MyWorkspace\\MdeModulePkg\\Application\\HelloWorld>build \endash a Ia32 \\\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li720\endash p Nt32Pkg\\Nt32Pkg.dsc\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\sb200\b0 Build the module in the current working directory and use the active platform specified in the target.txt file.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li720\sb200\b C:\\ MyWorkspace\\MdeModulePkg\\Application\\HelloWorld>build \endash a Ia32 \par
\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s2\li-1440\sb400\sa60\sl-340\slmult0\tx360\tx1440\cf1\fs28 Bugs \par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\sb200\cf2\b0\fs18 No known bugs.\par
Report bugs to edk2-buildtools-devel@lists.sourceforge.net\f1\par
\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s2\li-1440\sb400\sa60\sl-340\slmult0\tx360\tx1440\cf1\b\f0\fs28 Files \par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\sb200\cf2\b0\fs18 target.txt, tools_def.txt, platform.dsc, flashmap.fdf, package.dec and module.inf.\par
\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s2\li-1440\sb400\sa60\sl-340\slmult0\tx360\tx1440\cf1\b\fs28 See also\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\sb200\cf2\b0\fs18 GenFds.exe\par
\pard\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\s2\li-1440\sb400\sa60\sl-340\slmult0\tx360\tx1440\cf1\b\fs28 License\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360\cf2\b0\fs18 Copyright (c) 1999 - 2010, Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.\par
\par
This program and the accompanying materials are licensed and made available under the terms and\par
conditions of the BSD License which accompanies this distribution.  The full text of the license may be\par
found at:\par
http://opensource.org/licenses/bsd-license.php\par
\par
THE PROGRAM IS DISTRIBUTED UNDER THE BSD LICENSE ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES\par
OR REPRESENTATIONS OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED.\par
}
 